docs: add new cursor and windsurf docs (#17092)
coder/coder: docs/user-guides/workspace-access/windsurf.md

# Windsurf

[Windsurf](https://codeium.com/windsurf) is Codeium's code editor designed for AI-assisted
development.

Follow this guide to use Windsurf to access your Coder workspaces.

If your team uses Windsurf regularly, ask your Coder administrator to add Windsurf as a workspace application in your template.

> ## Install Windsurf and Coder CLI

Reviewer: Installing Coder CLI isn't required.

# Windsurf

[Windsurf](https://codeium.com/windsurf) is Codeium's code editor designed for AI-assisted
development.

Follow this guide to use Windsurf to access your Coder workspaces.

If your team uses Windsurf regularly, ask your Coder administrator to add Windsurf as a workspace application in your template.

## Install Windsurf

Windsurf can connect to your Coder workspaces via SSH:

1. [Install Windsurf](https://docs.codeium.com/windsurf/getting-started) on your local machine.

1. Open Windsurf and select **Get started**.

   Import your settings from another IDE, or select **Start fresh**.

1. Complete the setup flow and log in or [create a Codeium account](https://codeium.com/windsurf/signup)
   if you don't have one already.

> ## Install the Coder extension

Reviewer: We need to replace this section with our OpenVSX listing. No need for manually installing the Coder extension now.
https://open-vsx.org/extension/coder/coder-remote

1. Complete the setup flow and log in or [create a Codeium account](https://codeium.com/windsurf/signup)
   if you don't have one already.

## Install the Coder extension

Use the Coder extension to connect to your workspaces through SSH.

1. Download the [latest vscode-coder extension](https://github.com/coder/vscode-coder/releases/latest) `.vsix` file.

1. Drag the `.vsix` file into the extensions pane of Windsurf.

   Alternatively:

   1. Open the Command Palette
   (<kdb>Ctrl</kdb>+<kdb>Shift</kdb>+<kdb>P</kdb> or <kdb>Cmd</kdb>+<kdb>Shift</kdb>+<kdb>P</kdb>)
   and search for `vsix`.

   1. Select **Extensions: Install from VSIX** and select the vscode-coder extension you downloaded.

## Open a workspace in Windsurf

1. From the Windsurf Command Palette
(<kdb>Ctrl</kdb>+<kdb>Shift</kdb>+<kdb>P</kdb> or <kdb>Cmd</kdb>+<kdb>Shift</kdb>+<kdb>P</kdb>),
enter `coder` and select **Coder: Login**.

1. Follow the prompts to login and copy your session token.

   Paste the session token in the **Coder API Key** dialogue in Windsurf.

1. Windsurf prompts you to open a workspace, or you can use the Command Palette to run **Coder: Open Workspace**.

> > [!NOTE]
> > If you have any suggestions or experience any issues, please
> > [create a GitHub issue](https://github.com/coder/coder/issues/new?title=docs%3A+windsurf+request+title+here&labels=["customer-reported","docs"]&body=please+enter+your+request+here) or share in
> > [our Discord channel](https://discord.gg/coder).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For any issues please reach out [here]( https://github.com/coder/coder/issues/new/choose).
```
Let's remove this note. It looks a bit extra when we put it under each docs page. 
Instead use a simple link which shows them a form
![IMG-20250328-WA0028.jpg](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4850eec6-f241-4c2c-81c3-bf089783c209)

Author: I'm fine with dropping it - each page already has `See an opportunity to improve our docs? [Make an edit.](https://github.com/coder/coder/edit/main/docs/$DOC)`

# Windsurf

> [Windsurf](https://www.jetbrains.com/windsurf/) is JetBrains and Codeium's collaborative code editor designed for AI-powered development. It combines JetBrains's IDE technology with Codeium's AI capabilities in a lightweight, browser-first experience.

Author: ```suggestion
[Windsurf](https://codeium.com/windsurf) Codeium's code editor designed for AI-powered development. It combines JetBrains's IDE with Codeium's AI capabilities in a lightweight, browser-first experience.
```
